Hey, welcome to the next exciting chapter where you're going to build a robot vacuum cleaner.
That sounds interesting, right?
Now let's consider this is the room and this is your robot vacuum cleaner which is going
to clean your room. So how should a robot vacuum cleaner work?
It has to start moving in the room and it has to clean every corner, right?
Let's consider this is our vacuum cleaner.
Now do you see how it's moving?
The line is just for your reference.
Let's say it has cleaned these places in your house.
If it has a mop or if it has a broom under it, it's going to clean all these places.
And if you can see, it's going to the corner that is the wall and then it is getting hit
from it and then it changes its direction.
Do you see that?
It gets hit on the wall and changes its direction.
Now you will have to code your robot to check if it hits on the wall.
If it hits, then it has to change its direction.
By this way, you will be able to make your robot cover the entire house.
And you can see how well it is mopping the entire room.
That's super cool, right?
Shall we learn how to make your robot sense if it has hit the wall and how to change its
direction and make it clean the entire room?
Let's go ahead.
Go ahead and open a new program by clicking on the link in the pop-up that appears.
Once you open the new project, we shall move to the next step.
Have you opened a new project?
Now what is the first step always when you open a new project?
Change the name.
Go ahead, click on the top and change the name to Vacuum Cleaner Robot.
Rename it.
Once done, we shall proceed to the next step.
Have you renamed your project?
Now what is the next step?
How do we make our robot go to the wall and then detect it and then turn?
Now, before we see the coding part of it, let us understand our robot first.
So, if you open the playground, you will be able to see that this is your robot.
Can you see that your robot has sensors in the front?
These three are the sensors of your robot.
We shall see what this sensor is later on.
But these two sensors are the ones we are going to use for this project.
Sensor is a device which detects movement or any other parameter in your environment.
There can be different sensors.
Gas sensor to detect what kind of gas is around you.
Bump sensor which detects whether your robot has hit on some object.
Color sensor to detect color and so on.
There are many sensors in this world which you can put onto your robot and make it do different stuff.
Now, these two sensors here are bump sensors.
They will be able to detect if your robot has hit on any object.
So, this is the left bump sensor and this is your right bump sensor.
So, this will detect if the robot has hit on this side and this will detect if your robot has hit on this side.
So, we will be using these two sensors to detect if the robot has hit the wall.
Now, going back to the code, if you go to the sensing blocks,
you will be able to see a section called bumper sensing.
So, the left bumper and the right bumper is an option which is here.
Do you see it?
Now, this is the block we will be using to detect if left bumper has been pressed or if right bumper has been pressed.
Now, go ahead, find this code and then we shall proceed to the next step.
Were you able to find this command in the block section?
Good!
Now, what will be the code here?
Your robot has to keep driving in the forward direction till it hits the wall, right?
And then it has to change its direction and then again do the same thing.
Keep driving in the forward direction till it hits the wall.
Change direction, keep driving in the forward direction.
Hit the wall, then change direction, keep driving in the forward direction.
So, it's going to keep repeating this.
So, shall we go to the control block and find which of this we are going to use now?
Now, you will be spotting which of these blocks we are going to use.
Remember, your robot has to drive forward till it hits the wall.
After it hits the wall, then again the same steps have to repeat.
So, it has to keep repeating until it hits the wall.
Then change direction and keep repeating until it hits the wall.
So, go ahead, find out the block which you have to use for this particular code.
No, that's the wrong block.
You will have to use the repeat until block.
That's the correct answer.
The repeat until block is a very interesting one.
Whatever commands you put inside this, for example, if you say drive forward,
this command will continuously execute until some condition is met.
In our case, what is the condition?
Until the left bumper is pressed, this condition will work.
Now, after the left bumper is pressed, this condition will stop working.
And it will go to the next command.
So, what should be your next command?
We want the robot to turn.
So, turn right by let's say 135 degrees.
Now, let us put this into our when started section and let us try if this is working.
So, click on the start button and let's see if the robot is turning after the left bumper is hit.
Now, did you see that?
It turned.
Now, the left bumper got hit and it turned.
Now, go ahead, try it yourself and see if your robot is turning after the left bumper got hit.
Now, did it work?
Did this happen properly?
That's it. You've almost completed the code.
Now, this particular process should happen continuously, right?
It has to go forward, turn right, then again go forward, turn right and it has to keep repeating this forever.
So, go to the control section and find out the block that we can use for this.
No, that's a wrong block.
That will only repeat this particular code for some number of times.
We want it to repeat forever.
So, this is the right block, forever.
That's the correct answer.
So, if you include this here, now this particular code will continuously run.
Shall we try it?
It is going forward.
And then the left bumper is hit.
It is turning.
It's again going forward.
Again, the left bumper is hit.
It's turning.
And then it will keep repeating this.
Now, go ahead, try it and see if your code is working correctly.
See if there is any mistake in it.
There is a small mistake.
Let me see if you are able to find it out.
Now, were you able to include the forever block?
Excellent.
But did you find out any mistake in this code?
Now, let me show you what it is.
So, go to the look section and let's start drawing the lines as the robot goes by.
This will help us find out the mistake.
So, let me put the move pin down command here.
And let me start the code again.
And let us find out what is the mistake.
Now, are you able to find out the mistake?
Did you see that the robot is actually driving on the same line again and again?
It is not cleaning the entire house.
It is only cleaning the same lines again and again in a pattern.
Did you see that?
Now, this is because we have given an angle in that format.
Now, if we change this angle, this problem should be solved.
You should not give angles which will create a pattern.
Angles like 90 degrees, 120 degrees, 135, 45, such angles will make the robot go round and round in the same pattern like this.
So, this is the first mistake.
So, stop the robot and change the angle to 130 or any other angle other than the round numbers.
Now, let us see how the robot is performing.
Now, did you see that?
The pattern has changed.
The robot is driving in a different angle completely.
Now, the repetition will not happen.
So, go ahead, include the pin down, find out your error and change the angle.
Finish it and then we shall proceed.
Did you change the angle?
Is your robot properly cleaning the house?
It will look as if it is properly cleaning the house.
But there is one more small mistake which you would have overlooked.
Let us see what it is.
Now, in the robot, we saw that there are two sensors, right?
One is the left bumper sensor and the other is the right bumper sensor.
This is the left one and this is the right one.
Now, we have coded only for the left one.
But the right one is not yet coded.
Now, what happens if the right bumper sensor hits the wall first?
Then also your robot has to turn, right?
But we have coded only for one sensor, that is your left bumper sensor.
Whether your left or your right bumper, any of it hits, your robot has to turn.
But we have not coded for it.
So, whenever the right bumper sensor hits first, your robot will stagger a bit.
That is, it will try to keep pushing against the wall.
And then when the left bumper hits, after that your robot will turn.
I will show that to you now.
In this scenario, the right bumper is going to hit first.
But did you see that?
It pushed a little and after the left hit, then only it turned.
Here again, it's going to push sometime, then it hits and then it turns.
This is not the right way of doing it.
So, how shall we correct it?
We have to include the right sensor also here.
That is, the right bumper should also be included here.
Let us see how to do that.
Now, go to your sensing section and drag and drop this here.
And you will find the right bumper option here.
So, this as well as this needs to be checked.
Now, how do we join both?
There is an option for that.
Go to the operator section and you will find an option called and or option.
We have to choose the or option.
That is, the left bumper or the right bumper.
If this or this, if any of it is pressed, then this function has to happen.
So, you can drag and drop the whole of this into the condition like this.
So, this will check whether your left bumper is hit or your right bumper is hit.
If either one is hit, the robot will start going to the next command.
Shall we try doing it?
So, now you will see that the robot automatically turns without staggering against the wall.
Now, it will not stagger.
It will quickly turn.
Did you see that?
So, go ahead.
Include this statement where you're saying the left bumper or the right bumper.
This or can be found out in the operator section.
So, take this or condition.
Include the left bumper and right bumper.
Put it into your repeat until function and then we should proceed to the next step.
Were you able to do it?
Did you include both the sensors into your code?
Excellent.
Now, you've created a robot vacuum cleaner that properly cleans your house or your room completely without repeating the pattern and also without pushing against the walls.
That's a great job.
Now, if you leave this robot, it will keep repeating the pattern.
It will keep running forever like this.
That's how you've coded, right?
Forever is the condition that you've added here.
But what if I want the robot to stop after one hour or stop after 10 minutes?
What should you do then?
Now, there is an option called timer in your code.
Go to the sensing section and you will find timer in seconds.
Do you see that?
Now, just think and see how you can include instead of this forever option.
How can you include a timer option in your code?
That is this particular steps.
That is one, two, three has to get repeated until the timer in seconds is let's say 60 seconds.
That is for one minute.
After one minute, your robot has to stop.
So go ahead, try it.
And then I will tell you how it needs to be done.
Now, were you able to do it?
Were you able to stop your robot after a particular time?
Let me show you how it needs to be done.
So let us first delete this forever loop.
And we are going to use the same repeat until loop.
This one again.
And inside this, we are going to use a different operator.
So in the operators, we are going to use this greater than operator.
And we are going to use the timer in seconds to compare it.
So if the timer in seconds is greater than 120, that is two minutes.
If you put 60, it is 60 seconds, which is one minute.
I've put 120 here, which is two minutes.
So now this particular part of the code is going to repeat until the timer in seconds is two minutes.
After that, it will go out.
So now let's include it.
And let's see if the robot is stopping after two minutes.
Now did you see that?
The robot has stopped after two minutes.
And it has completed this much of the room, cleaning so many spaces.
That's exciting, right?
Now go ahead, check it yourself.
Include the repeat until timer in seconds greater than operator and mention the time that you want.
And see how your robot stops after that time.
Did you try it?
Did it work?
Excellent.
Now you're a great robot maker and a great coder.
Go ahead and download the program and save it to your device.
Once done, we should proceed to the next step.
Did you save it?
Good job.
Now go ahead and finish the teaser questions for this chapter and rush to the next one.
You're going to be super excited with the robot soldier that you're going to build in the next chapter.
See you there.
